He knows what you did five minutes ago. Ignite London, applause for Mr. Tom Scott!
[APPLAUSE] Thank you.
So, hello, I'm Tom. Short poll: who is not active here, does not have an account, on Facebook, Twitter,
on LinkedIn, on any other social network. Somebody?
There's a few hands up, OK.
Who has everything on public? You have your medical information on Twitter and you
post everything. Somebody?
A couple there. Everyone who falls into those categories: enjoy the ride!
All others, little warning. This retrieves live data from the internet. It can contain offensive things,
sorry if that is the case.
Also, if people show their personal information, do not take photos or videos of it, I will
hide everything in the video before it appears.
So, let's start with Twitter. It is Social Media Week, so let's start here.
Twitter has binary privacy settings, which is very interesting, because the Press Complaints
Commission has said this morning that if you put your Twitter account on public, all
tweets may be used by journalists.
So if you've tweeted that you hate your boss, like all these people in the last hour ...
You might ... it does not basically take the bitter ex-test. Can someone you
do you hate to confront this information?
Let's talk about Foursquare. Most people here will have read PleaseRobMe.com, which keeps track of
when people leave their home. But you can find out when people are at home and
where that is 'at home'? Well, yes, if they made two mistakes: one, link Twitter to Foursquare,
and two, check in at your own home.
[GELACH] Almost all of these locations have Google Street View information, so in
In this case you can even inspect the place before you get there, and to make that worse: you know all these people
smartphones.
So, let's talk about Youtube. Youtube has privacy settings, but no one uses them. There is "private"
and "hidden". But what people usually do is upload their video with no tags and name.
However, it is still tagged with the filename, so if you search for, say, DSC_2432.MOV, then
do you think this kind of thing.
I have no idea what is behind me on the screen. These are nine completely random videos
without context. People their children and talking people. That's a bit of the internet,
or at least a piece of the world that has broadband internet access and video cameras.
Wikipedia is interesting. Anonymous users leave traces behind. You know this - if you edit Wikipedia,
then your IP address will appear. Interestingly enough, so is your proxy address. So here are
the four most recent interesting changes from the Houses of Parliament.
[GELACH] Anne Main and Mark Harper are both members of parliament ... [APPLAUSE] ... but it is convenient to mention
that because these are from the Houses of Parliament it does not mean that the
MPs have made the changes. May everyone have been.
Now you will notice that I have avoided the hot hangar so far, namely Facebook. Facebook has
actually fine privacy setting, regardless of what everyone thinks of it. And security: they
SMS a one-time password, in case you do not trust the computer you log into.
Unless you have him on public. And many people do not realize what
"public" means. Example: Here are 200 people who have everything on public
their Facebook profile. Do they know this? Some of them. Many do not. So this is
where it can go very wrong. Let's choose one of these people.
And it has gone very wrong. [CENSORED] here. His profile photo is a photograph of a ... tree,
I think. That is interesting. I never met him, I have no idea who he is, he is chosen
through the computer. Well, let's look at his profile.
Facebook is blocking my automatic program from obtaining more information, but that stops
I do not just log in and look at his profile. So, let's take a quick look
He is a tree carer, that explains the photos, he studied at the [CENSORED] College, he comes from [CENSORED],
he was born on 14 December 19 [CENSORED], which means that it was a ... Friday. [LAUGHTER]
His father looks terrifying. Oh! And Jane [CENSORED] is his aunt, which means [CENSORED]
probably his mother's maiden name is.
Do you already feel a bit weird about this? Here are a few of his recent thoughts. "Fernando Torres", he is
probably a Chelsea fan. Well, here is a thing, the system would
have to have removed one message from its timeline and placed it here.
[PUBLIC: OOH!] 075 [CENSORED] 0, this almost certainly goes directly to the voicemail, but let's
call him ... [APPLAUSE]
"Welcome to the O2 messaging service ... the number you are trying to reach is not available ..."
Hey! I leave a message for [CENSORED]. I am currently on the podium in London
a few hundred people, give us an applause ...
[LOUD APPLAUSE]
I check it for a moment, this is [CENSORED], who is a tree caretaker, Chelsea fan, and [CENSORED].
That you know, you may need to secure your Facebook profile and check your security settings.
And you're probably born on a Friday and I think your mother's maiden name is [CENSORED].
[APPLAUSE AND GEJUICH]
I hope you had a nice evening. My name is Tom Scott, good evening.
[Translation: Niels de Groot]